P R E FAC E.
6
4
T H.E
Re
RN
F all parts of learning which
* K our countrymen have cultivat-
92
O
ed, during this laft century.
Rr
E
with diſtinguihed fucceſs, their
L
 
own language ſeems to be that
wherein their efforts have been
moſt weak or unfucceſsful. (Phey ſtand
juſtly foremoſt in other branches of Philoſo-
phy, and even their language is now conſi-
dered by Foreigners  as abſolutely requiſite to
complete a learned education; yet the Engliſt
themſelves, either ignorant or unmindful of
the treafure they pofleſs, have carelelly fuf-
fered it to be adulterated by ignorance, or
affectation. Like Kings panting after new
conqueſts, they have indolently permitted
their natural dominions to fink into deſolation.
5
It muſt be owned, indeed, that many wri-
ters have been of late induſtrioufly employed
in drawing up Grammatical Eflays on the En-
gliſc tongue, incited, perhaps, by the appa-
△ 3
rent
vi
P RE F AC E.
rent utility of the deſign; but, probably, not
fufficiently apprized of the labour which was
to attend the undertaking. Thus we find
them contenting themſelves with driving their
heavy labours in the track of former error,
and never venturing from the beaten road in
queſt either of beauty or improvement. It
is true, however, that in theſe there are often
ffound ſome good grammatical inſtructions,
which we have taken care to preſerve and im-
prove; yet the rules in all are ſo intricate and
indigeſted, and ſo manifeſtly deficient, and
even falſe in ſeveral places, that all but the
writers themſelves muſt be convinced of the
necefſity of another attempt to reduce our
language into fyſtem. This I have undertaken;
the errors of others I have taken care to cor-
rect, but the reader muſt judge for himſelf
whether I have ſubſtituted any of my own.
Yet if the reader confiders the number
of prejudices to be furmounted in a work
of this kind, and the many objections to be
obviated, which either ignorance or vanity
has thrown in our way, he will not be fur-
prifed to find us, while intent upon correét-
ing the deviations of others, ſometimes guilty
of deviation ourſelves. We were not only to
guard againſt the errors of the ignorant, but
the delufions of the learned. It has been al-
ſerted by the latter, for inſtance, that in order
to produce a complete Grammar of our lan-
guage, we ihould imitate che Latin in the for-
mation
PRE FACE.
vii
mation of our Caſes, Moods, and Tenſes;
whilſt others, on the contrary, affirm, that the
Engliſb tongue has no ſimilitude whatever
with the Latin in this reſpect, and therefore
they are for preventing our making uſe of the
common technical terms ufually employed
in Grammars of our language: We have
taken the liberty to diflent from both, and
offer the preſent work as a proof that their
opinions are erroneous, This Grammar will
ſerve to fhew that our language may be re-
duced to fyſtem, without the neceflity of ad-
hering ſo cloſely to the Latin as has been hi-
therto thought neceffary; but, at the ſame
time, care has been taken not to difient ſo
far from that ſtandard language as to diſcard
thoſe grammatical terms borrowed from it,
and which have acquired, by long uſe, a pre-
ſcriptive right to be admitted into our own.
Nothing but an excefs of ridiculous affecta-
tion could induce ſome Grammarians to make
uſe of new and barbarous terms, inſtead of
thoſe already well enough known to every
novice in Grammar. The mere Engliſb rea-
der frequently hears of the terms Noun Ad-
jective, Verb or Adverb, and can probably
tell what they mean from their frequent oc-
currence; but as for their modern fubſtitutes.
fuch as Name, Forename, Adname, and ſuch
like, he is quite at a loſs to know their mean-
ing, and requires as much information to
lead him into their etymology as was requi-
ſite in the Latin terms themiclves, but with
this
vii
...
PP R E F ACE.
this difadvantage, that he may never meet
with theſe again; whereas the Latin terms
may probably occur in the next book he has
recourſe to. In order, therefore, to avoid
ſuch needleſs affectation, l have, retained the
common appellations of the ſeveral parts of
ſpeech; ſtudious rather of improving things
than words, as the perfection of an artiſt con-
fiſts rather in making the proper uſe of known
inſtruments, than in forming new for every
occaſion.
Others have with more plaufibility inſiſted,
that the Latin Grammar was the propereſt by
which to learn Engliſb, and that, in order to
come at the true conſtruction and orthogra-
phy of our own language, we ſhould ſeek for
both in the Roman tonguc. But, whatever
weight this might have with an ltalian or
Spaniard, whofe languages have a near reſem-
blance to the Latin, yet it can weigh but
little with an Engliſb learner, who is to write
a language very different both in ſound and
formation. If we were to learn any dialeet
previous to our own, it might, perhaps, with
the greateſt propriety, be the Saxon; from
whence the greateft part of ours is derived,
and with which it ſtill bears the neareſt affi-
nity. The words which are merely of Latin
derivation do not make up one fourth part
of the Engliſb tongue; how then can the La-
tin be ſo abſolutely neceflary towards complet-
ing the Engliſh learner? It is ſo far otherwiſe,
that
PREFAC E.
ix
that I will venture to affirm, that thofe, who
never had the leaſt acquaintance with Latin.
may, by the proper uſe of this Grammar,
become at once capable of writing Engliſh
with correctneſs, elegance, and preciſion.
There is ſtill another objection, which
ſome are too apt to make, and with which
they endeavour to palliate their own indo-
lence; this is no other than that Engliſb may
be very well learned without any Grammar
whatſoever; but in this they moſt certainly
are deceived, for though it is poflible a young
gentleman or lady may ſpeak with tolerable
propriety upon ſome particular fubjects, yet
when they come to write, even though it be
but a letter, their deficiency will ſoon appear,
and with this aggravating circumſtance, that
their name is generally ſfigned to that which
ſerves as a teſtimony of their defect. We ac-
knowledge, indeed, that if they purloin from
printed-letters, they may flourifh at a cheap
expence, but not a volume of theſe can an-
ſwer all the ordinary occurrences of life.
To fuch young gentlemen or ladies, there-
fore, as deſire to write with correctneſs,
and at the ſame time decline the intricacies
of a learned education, a work of this kind
muſt be abſolutely requifite, and I have
accordingly endeavoured to make every part
of it obvious to the meaneſt capacity. Ei-
ther Foreigners, or the Fair Scx of our own
nation,
X
PREFAC E.
nation, whoſe education is perhaps a littie
too much neglected, may here find a familiar
and unaffected inſtructor, leſs ſolicitous to
diſplay his own abilities than to improve
theirs.
As this work is chiefly calculated for
the youth of both fexes, as well as for fo-
reigners who are deſirous of learning our
language, I have taken the utmoft care to
adapt it to either claſs of learners. This has
been attempted by others, but never ſo fully
before; and the want there was of a good
practical Grammar in all our ſchools induced
me firſt to bend my ſtudies towards ſupply-
ing the defect. It was my deſign to draw
up fuch a work as might lead the young ſcho-
lar into a knowledge of Engliſb, in the ſame
manner as he learns Prench or any other mo-
dern language. In it I have included all the
parts of Engliſb ſpeech, and haye given upon
every part fuch well-grounded rules as the
afſiduity of others might have pointed to me,
or my own induſtry found uſeful. Nor haye
I been leſs careful in my examples to thoſe
rules; the reader of diſcernment will pro-
bably perceive them various and appofite, at
once ſerving to illuſtrate the precept, and en-
tertain the imagination. Some benefit may
be alſo derived from their copiouſneſs, as they
may anſwer the purpoſe of an Engliſb voca-
bulary, furnifhing a number of words which
the
P RE FAC E.
xi
the ſcholar will in the other parts of the work
be taught to diſpoſe, and thus make exer-
ciſes from both in profe and verſe. I have
alſo fully and clearly explained the conftruc-
tion of all the parts of Engliſb ſpeech; and
have given the declenſions of Articles, Nouns,
and Pronouns, and the conjugation of all
ibrts of Verbs, both regular and irregular,
at full length. At the end of every part of
ſpeech are inſerted ſeveral fhort praxes and
ſcientifical remarks, calculated for thofe who
have made a deeper progreſs in grammatical
diſquiſitions.
Nor have I been leſs afliduous in directing
the proper manner of pronouncing our lan-
guage, than in the art of compoſition. In
this reſpect, almoſt all Foreigners find the
greateſt difficulty, and demand the moſt able
inſtructor. To pronounce our language with
propriety, untinctured with provincial accent,
foils even ſeveral Natives of our own empire;
thoſe therefore, I flatter myſelf, may by this
Grammar in ſome meafure remedy the defect.
I have taken the utmoſt care to ſettle and
mark the accents upon every word, ſo that its
pronunciation may be preciſely diſtinguiſhed,
except when the irregularity of our language
abſolutely rendered fuch an undertaking im-
poffible. However, the redundant létters,
which we as well as the French, have admit-
ted into our language; letters which are al-
ways to be written yet are never pronounced,
thele,
xii
P RE FAC E.
theſe, I ſay, are always pointed out, ſo that
Foreigners and Natives, at a diſtance from
the capital, may be taught, as far as Books
can teach, to give every word its true pro-
nunciation and proper accent. When we
thus aſcertain the difference between ſpeak-
ing and writing, it in ſome meaſure prevents
the future deviations of language, and hin-
ders faſhion from introducing barbarous af-
fectation into our ſpeech, and deters the or-
thographiſt from writing the language exactly
as it is viciouſly pronounced.
As the inſtruction of Foreigners was no
inconfiderable part of my aim in this work, I
have not only been thus affiduous in direct-
ing their pronunciation, but have alſo added
rules for fuch as underſtand the Latin, lta-
lian, French, Spaniſb, Portugueſe, Dutch, and
other modern languages, in order to fhew the
near affinity between theſe and our own. The
natural gradation from one language to ano-
ther is pointed out in numerous examples, in a
more diſtinct and conſpicuous manner than in
any thingof this kind ever yet publiſhed;, ſothat
we can at one view ſee how far our language
is original, and how far we are indebted to
others for its variety, richneſs, and beauty.
This part of my undertaking has never been
attempted before by any author in the ſame
manner; 1 have, therefore, the timidity inci-
dent to every man, who adventures into an
unfrequented region, ſolicitous to make new
diſco-
P R E F ACE.
xiii
diſcoveries, yet if difappointed, ready to ac-
knowledge my miſtake.
As I have been thus ſolicitous to add to
the grammatical ſtore, by my own labours;
equal pains have been uſed to retrench the
former ſuperfluity of others; a work of this
kind fhould abound with all the rules necef-
fary to inſtruct, but not to embarraſs; it is
deſigned not to gratify vain ſpeculation, but
to be converted into practical utility. It
would have been needleſs, therefore, to en-
gage the ſcholar's attention upon fubjects not
immediately uſeful; or to croud the page, as
others have done, with a multiplicity of notes
collected from the Ancients, relative to the
definitions, diviſions and ſubdiviſions of Gram-
mar; all theſe the learned are ſuppoſed to
know already, and the ignorant will find it a
fufficient taſk at firft to underſtand the more
material parts of the art, without diving thus
into the recefles of antiquity for freſh labour.
Such a needleſs diſplay of our abilities would
only increaſe the Size, and conſequently the
price, of this volume; and at the ſame time
confume thofe hours which the ſcholar might
have more profitably employed in ſtudying
the neceflary rules of the language. There
is a delicate ſimplicity in all the fineſt works
of art, and this fimplicity Grammar ſome-
times teaches; let us, therefore, not admit
foreign ornaments into a work of this kind,
and thus deſtroy the force of our precept by
the errors of our example.
8
Thus
xiv
P RE FAC E.
Thus much with regard to the nature of
the work offered to the public, it remains to
lay ſomething of the manner of employing it,
and the uſes to which it may be applied. In
learning any of the living languages, the firſt
great point is to attain the proper pronun-
ciation, on which, in a great meafure, depends
all its harmony and force. In learning Engliſb
therefore, not Foreigners alone, but even
Engliſbmen themſelves, fhould be carefully
inftructed in this neceflary part of the lan-
guage, by which means they will avoid thofe
provincial and local dialects, which are too
often found in the mouths even of ſome who
would be thought polite. Of all other lan-
guages, perhaps, our own requires the greateſt
care in this reſpect, the different manner in
which numbers of words are pronounced and
written, being ſo very anomalous, that many.
even of the natives, can never attain the true
ſound without ſome afliſtance. At this part,
therefore, it will be abſolutely neceflary for
the young ſcholar to begin; and it fhould be
the teacher's bufineſs, whether maſter or
miſtreſs (for this work is equally calculated
for both) to fhew him, by the help of Gram-
mar, the various ſounds that every particular
letter, or combination of letters, is capable
of admitting; thus he may be taught, for
inſtance, that the lettera has different ſounds,
it is ſounded like the French maſculine é on
moſt occaſions, as in face, place; it hath a maf-
culine ſound like the French a, as in tall, fall:
a feminine or weak ſound, as in man, can; and
PR E FAC E.
XV
aſoundbetweenboth theſe, asarm, art, cart, Sc.
and that it is funk almoſt entirely in the words
Bargain, Captain; and ſo of the reſt. Thus
the ſcholar will at length come to have a pre-
ciſe idea of the value of every letter, and
give it upon every occaſion, its proper pro-
nunciation. As to Foreigners, they fhould
firſt be taught the vowels, in the Engliſb
manner, which is very different from the
manner in which they are pronounced by
other nations, and then they ſhould be fhewn
their changes in compoſition. Above all
things, they fhould be well grounded in the
Engliſb orthography, for which purpofe, they
fhould be conſtantly employed in ſpelling
words, from one to five or fix ſyllables, and
in reading ſome of our beſt authors, or even
the news papers, the teacher all the time di-
ligently attending and correcting any vicious
pronunciation, and laying down the rules for
every correction. Nor fhould the right placing
the accent be ever omitted; for this purpoſe
care ſhould be taken to refer the learner to
that part of Grammar, in which pronunciation
is chiefly the object, ſo that he may be able
to judge for himſelf of the propriety of every
accent, which might to the inattentive appear
the refult of accident only. And here, per-
haps, in this Grammar, while he ieeks after
the dryneſs of precept, he may be agreeably
furprized with the fallies of imagination, as
I have taken care at proper intervals to inſert
pleafant leflons, which like ſpots of verdure
a 2
in
xvi
P R E FAC E.
in an Aſiatic wild, may ſerve at once to afford
the weary traveller reſt and refreſhment.
The pronunciation being thus ſettled, the
tutor's next care fhould be to inſtruct his
pupil in the declenſion of nouns, and the
conjugation of ſome verbs, as they ſtand in
the Grammar; and theſe the ſcholar ſhould
by all means get by heart, as in learning the
Latin or French languages; but with reſpect
to the remarks and other ſpeculative rules, a
diligent perufal will be ſufficient.
As to the ornaments of ſtyle, they are fitter
for the more advanced ſtudent than our young
beginner, however, the teacher ſhould not
totally omit this part of his pupil's education.
He fhould inſtruct him in the elegance of
compofition, rather by example than by mere
precept. He fhould appoint him as a taſk,
either to ſpeak after, or tranfcribe the beſt
authors, and his own taſte fhould direct to
the propereſt models to copy from. Were 1
to advife beginners, eſpecially children, they
ſhould read only fuch Beoks as are eaſily un-
derſtood, and written in the moſt plain and
natural ſtyle, upon ſubjects capable of in-
tereſting the virtuous part of their paflions,
or fubduing thofe which lead to Vice. Nor
can I here avoid recommending ſeveral of
this nature, publiſhed by Mr. Newbery.
which ſeem happily adapted to delight and
rectify the growing mind, and lead it up to
truth, through the flowery paths of pleafure.
Aſep's
PRF FACE.
XVii
Eſop's fables, both in proſe and verſe,
will alſo be a proper inſtructor; and as they
advance, books of a higher ſtrain, and a
more ſpeculative turn, may be put into their
hands with ſafety, fuch as the Spectators,
Tatlers, Guardians, the Rambler, Idler, and
Adventurer, and a few other periodical pieces
of a later date; thefe, with perhaps the
works of our great poet Mr. Pope, will open
their minds to all the beauties of our admi-
rable language, and ſhew at once both its
ſtrength and conciſeneſs.
From this ſtage of education, the ſcholar
may next proceed to hiſtory, in which ex-
tenſive field, that of his own nation ought
certainly to be preferred. Every Engliſbman,
how deſtitute ſoever of other riches, has one
ineſtimable treaſure, his country; witih that
treafure, and all its advantages, it ſhould be
at once his pleafure and his boaft to be tho-
roughly acquainted.
Nor ſhould the pupils delivery or manner
of reading be omitted among the reſt of his
inſtitutions; for this purpoſe, perhaps, thoſe
works which we have in blank verſe are ex-
tremely proper, and a portion from one of
theſe fhould every day be firſt read by the
maſter, with the proper pauſes and juſt em-
phaſis, and then the ſcholar fhould endeavour
to imitate him, as far as his abilities will
permit. When he is at a loſs for the mean-
3 3
15g
xviii
P R E FAC E.
ing in ſome of theſe productions, his tutor
fhould be very careful to explain it, to ſhew
him the peculiar elegance of every expreffion.
and to point out which are obſolete, or which
but lately introduced into the language. The
learner fhould not only be thus employed in
reading, but in writing extracts from thofe
books, and even ſhould get ſome of the moſt
ſtriking paffages by heart. By theſe means,
having amafied a fund of beautiful metaphors
and exquifite deſcriptions, he may be at length
ſet to compoſe fomething either in proſe or
verſe, either a letter or an epiſtle, which
fhould be firſt corrected ſeveral times by
himſelf, and then by his tutor, whoſe bufi-
neſs it fhould be conſtantly to refer him to his
Grammar for a juſt diſpoſition of the Syntax.
and eyen to go ſo far as to make him give an
account of every part of ſpeech which his
epiſtle contains, and point to each according
to the general praxis on Grammar, laid down
in the g6gth page of the preſent work.
Such are the helps given, and fuch are the
difficulties to be furmounted in attaining a
perfect knowledge of our language; a lan-
guage, which the reſt of Europe have been
but lately made acquainted with, and which
they now regard as a new diſcovered mine of
the richeſt oar. This language is now culti-
vated by all the polite world abroad, while
our countrymeh ſeem fupinely negligent of
it at home. The fupinenels of my countrymen
5
P RE FACE.
xix
is furely an object of contempt or furprize,
to ſee them neglecting their own language,
as not worth cultivation, when the judicious
Spaniards have made a dictionary of theirs,
containing ſix volumes in folio; when the
French have made it a national concern to
ſpread theirs among all the courts of Europe,
and have taken this as one of their routs to
univerſal empire. This neglect I have among
others attempted to obviate. “ Tongues,
(ſays the ingenious Mr. Jobnſon) like go-
.
vernments, have a natural tendency to de-
generation. We have long preferved our
.
conſtitution, let us make ſome ſtruggles for
our language.“ A noble refolution this, and
whatever may be my ſtrength, yet as the
ſame ardour, which excited him, inſpires me, I
offer myſelf a champion in the ſame glorious
cauſe; though perhaps with much inferior
abilities, yet being furniſhed and affiſted by
others Works, there is a poffibility of making
Engliſb Grammar more complete than they
have leftit. They have, it muſt be granted,
amafled from a variety of ſtores the materials
for completing the edifice, by coming after
them, perhaps, it has been my fortune to
give the materials the moſt artful arrange-
ment. Mr. Greenwood, upon this fubject
ebſerves, that no fuch thing as a complete
Grammar was to be expected from any one
perſon, and indeed his own Grammar; which
though perhaps one of the beſt hitherto extant,
is certainly no contradiction to the truth of his
general
XX
PREFACE.
general affertion; yet after all, ſomething com-
plete may refult from the fucceflive applica-
tion of different abilities to the ſame under-
taking, and I will venture to offer the preſent
work, as the moſt complete of the kind that
has yet appeared among us. I am not inſen-
ſible, however, of the inattention of the pub-
lic at this juncture, and their diſ-inclination
either to examine a work of labour, or to do
it juftice when examined. Iknow how eaſy
it is for vanity to aflume a right of judging
even without the pains of reading, and how
often ſome have been found to demoliſh a
palace, who were unable perhaps to build up
a hovel: Yet ſtill I have ſtrong expectations
from the candour and diſcernment of many.
whoſe ſuperior abilities have taught them to
know, that even mediocrity in ſo difficult a
work deſerves applauſe.
E RRA TA.
AGE 4, for donne read donné. Ibid. for pollußllabler
1
r. diſcllables. P. II, for ght r. gb. P. 3o, for mo-
noßllables r. wordt. P. 31, for bereafter r. Healthful. lbid.
for monoßllables r. words. P. 48, for /ball r. /al. P. g6.
for wrote r. written. P. 64, for Dr. 3. P. 85, for lowing
r. liwing. P. 111, for conſonant r. wowel. P. 107, for
bullock r. ſteer. Ibid. for bridemaid r. Mride. P. 137, delt
bundred. P. 203, for regular r. irregular. P. 257, for
refted r. weſted. P. 230, for reflexion r. inflexion. P. 263,
ſor partieple r. peſue. P. 405, for 1563 r. 1653
